To whom it may concern,

As a recent graduate of NYU I can't express how enthuastically I'd like to reccommend Dr. Mitu Khandaker for the position of Associate Professor. During my undergraduate studies at the NYU Game Center, Professor Khandaker has been everything from an academic advisor, instructor on numerous occasions, capstone advisor, independent study supervisor, and mentor to me-- to say that she had the biggest impact on me during that time would be an understatement. When I went to her office for the first time freshman year, it was simply to ask to be let off the waitlist for her Intro to Game Development course. Three years later I'm in her office again, receiving a massive high-five after getting a job as a Software Engineer at Microsoft. As a young woman pursuing a degree in a notoriously male dominated field, to see another woman not that much older than I am already be well established in the game development community was comforting. However its her expertise in development, ability to foster creatively stimulating environments, and enthusiasm for students' work that makes her invaluable.

While the Game Center is an NYU Tisch department, Professor Khandaker provides a route for students with an interest in programming and development to follow while still cultivating artisically creative challenges revolving around agency, diversity, inclusivity, and self expression. Her years of experience in Computer Science make her an excellent resource for students struggling to bring their ideas to fruition. It also is incredibly inspiring-- Mitu brings an air of humanity to a field that many students at the Game Center are frankly afraid to even think about let alone attempt. Not only did I had a massive fear of CS my first semester at NYU, I had convinced myself I was 'too dumb' to even try programming. From the most introductory course I've taken with her to the most specialized and personal, Professor Khandaker's classes are structured such that her students (whether they realize or not) gain familiarity with relevant technologies and workflows they'll likely experience in the field after graduation. The foundations of working on a development team: stand-up, task lists, git, demos, documentation, were the basis of her Intro to Game Development course-- and are things I deal with everyday as a Software Engineer. It was that class in particular that sparked my interest in software; before that I could best be described as a bit directionless, vehemently determined to avoid taking any math or science courses. As an academic advisor Professor Khandaker noticed my newfound appreciation for programming and worked with me to lay out a course plan such that I would get a minor in Computer Science and Mathetmatics in addition to my BFA in Game Design, ultimately kickstarting my career at Microsoft.

Professor Khandaker's teaching is  bolstered by her active contributions to the game development community, having founded her own company with an emphasis on diversity and inclusion. Beyond introductory courses and my freshman year at the Game Center, 'People Games: Social Simulation and AI', 'XR Development', Capstone, and my own Independent Study all taught and supervised by Professor Khandaker were where I felt most challenged as a game developer and artist. In a homogenous industry with an unfortunately toxic reputation, she motivates students to think about the social impact of games and create refelctions of ourselves in our work. In People Games and XR Dev we often touched on how we as developers can impact players' emotions-- social AIs that could endear themselves to oberservers based on how they respond to stimuli, how immersion in VR could enhance players' connections to simulated objects, etc. These were concepts that I had never considered before yet she enabled us to explore them freely. In my final semesters at the Game Center she advised me on Capstone and my Independent Study; this series of projects were culminations of lessons I'd learned from her over the years. Mitu's obvious passion for games is infectious, as many of my peers and I created some of our most inspired work under her tutelage. As a student I'd never felt excited about a midterm project before, but there was always such a lively, supportive atmosphere in lab sessions and 1:1 development meetings that it was impossible to not feel that way. Even at times when I could not physically be in her office bouncing ideas around, she continued to provide support and advice. During the pandemic Mitu's guidance is without a doubt the only reason I managed to finish my Capstone or even feel confident enough to present it, talking me through ideas, helping me plan next steps, and reminding me to take breaks and focus on my mental health when I needed it most. Every experience and interaction I've had with Professor Khandaker has been a net positive for me both academically and personally; she is an exceptional professor entirely deserving of the position of Associate Professor.


Best,
Vera Limani
Software Engineer, Microsoft
Bachelor in Fine Arts, Game Design and Interactive Media
NYU Tisch Class of 2020



* as a young woman at the game center prusuing a degree in a notoriously male dominated field, another woman not that much older than me and already well established enough in the game development community was inspiring and comforting-- gave me something to aspire towards
* is actively contributing to the game development community while also continuing to teach- practices what she preaches
* structures classes in a way that gives us hands on experiences with relevant technologies and working environments